Let us write a program for displaying multiplication table for a given number.
This problem uses loop. where loop is used, where ever you have repeating statements so you are first
task or challenge for a student will be to identify whether the procedure is having repeating statements
or not.
If so then you can use a loop.
So for that you should understand the procedure.
First of all so let us learn how to understand the procedure and how to take a loop and solve a problem.
So here is a very basic problem.
Let us see a multiplication tables.
Already I have an example of multiplication table, this is how it looks like.
For example number six.
we write it like this:  six ones is six.
six two times is 12.
Six three is 18
so on
So we write like this. same thing,
We want our program to print now.
If you observe every time a number six is multiplied by something and we get the result and we displayed
then they get multiplied by some number and display it multiplied by some number and
display in this way
So this is not just a one time multiplication.
We are going on multiplying how many times ten times you are multiplying.
Yes.
Then in this what other things we should know first of all we should know.
a number
This is a number right.
So here i will write a number.
Then it should be multiplied by 1 then 2 then 3 and 4.
This is looking like a cpunter.
Yes.
We saw in the previous video we have used
i there.
I was becoming one then two then three four then so on, right.
So that's what is a counter.
So let us use that same.
I hear i
Then how we are getting this result.
Six then twelve then 18
This is obtained by multiplying these two.
So this is nothing but I into n or n into i, whatever you say those two are multiplied.
That's it.
So it means I should take N and I and I should multiply and get it and every step I should be increased
number remains same, i should be increased.
So this is how I should frame a procedure for this.
So the procedure is take i from 1 onwards and go on multiply it by 6 and getting the answer.
So for how to do that I have drawn a flowchart already I have an example of flowchart here.
Let us look at the flow chart.
Start enter a number.
We should know a number right.
We should know a number.
Then we should have i.
Initially it should be 1.
I should be made as 1.
So number is a given and I is also 1.
Then how many times we have to display 10, 1-10  only.
That is sufficient.
So I should reach ten.
Then it should stop.
But it becomes eleven then you should stop.
So I is less than equal to 10.
Yes.
Then what I have to do.
I'm just printing I into n, this portion I am printing, this portion.
print this one then increase the value of i, I plus plus so I assign  I plus one, increase the value
then again continue.
Again check the condition.
It's less than 10 right.
Then again multiply.
Get the result, then,  I assign a plus one.
So i becomes three then check.
It's less than 10.
Yes.
Then multiply it then i becomes four.
It's less than 10 multiplied I become 5.
So this is how it will be repeating.
And when I is not less than equal to 10.
That is false it will stop.
So I have already drawn a flowchart based on this working.
Now let us convert this into a simple program.
So we will see the flow chart and convert it. in our program,
We need to take input that is n right.
So here I will start from int main,
I will not write #include everything.
Those libraries you know already.
Already we have discussed that. then here
I need variables n and I.
If you observe this n and I, only two things are used so yes I have taken that now I should read n
so for reading n we give a message cout enter n or enter a number whatever
you want you can give a suitable message and you can read a number, then i should start from one every
time  condition is check it should be less than equal to 10 and also we have to increase i.
So if you remember in the previous video I have shown you for loop which is used for counter control.
Yes.
Here we are using a counter so for counter control.
For loop is better.
Yes we can use for loop
So let us write a for loop for I start from 1 onwards, I is less than equal to 10 and I plus plus right.
See first one second one third one.
First one second one and third one we have group all those three statements that are related to i.
In a one place that is the benefit of for loop now inside this what is happening.
1 2 and 3 are over.
What is happening.
Just we have to print.
So I have to print it here.
That's all.
So say cout.
Let us print it is How it is appeared here as it is how to display that.
So for that First of i should display no.
Number it is a variable.
Okay.
And then this cross marks this  capital X  I can take it looks like cross marks.
Okay I should print X but X is a letter I have to bring so give again in such an operation and give
some space and write X and again get some space so that after end we get some space.
Then again after this also we get some space.
Then this one is one two three, Oh this is I.
Yes I can use counter I then we need equal symbol so again that is a string or a character.
So give space and equal to sign and again go.
Then after that.
This i into n this is display so there is no space.
I'll just remove this.
Okay.
We know it well,  just i will remove it.
So here again insertion operation I into n.
And it will be displaying this then.
After finishing first line it should go to the next line for the next value.
Next row.
So I should give e5ndl also.
So here I will continue or else I can write here also cout endl.
So even all these I can write them in different Cout one below another also.
Also I get the same result.
So once unless and until I say endl, it will not appear in the next line.
So that's it this is for loop close this for loop.
Then as we have said int so we have to see a return zero end of the main function.
So this is the program for displaying multiplication table for a given number.
So there is a demo available you can watch that demo and you have to practice this program on your own machine.
No one more important thing in the coming topics.
I'll be showing few more programs and most of the programs are depend on the counter like
this so I may be using the counter and show you other programs also.
OK so that's all in this video.